README.md, before:

# COMPUTER NETWORKING - A TOP DOWN APPROACH by Jim Kurose, Keith Ross 
I decide to work on problems which I found interesting and challenging. The full set of problems you can find and check on the textbook. Please buy a digital/hardcover to support the teachers. This solution is for educational purpose only.

Online lectures and review questions can be found here: [Lectures](https://gaia.cs.umass.edu/kurose_ross/lectures.php).

## Agenda 
1. [Computer Networks and The Internet](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/comp-network-and-the-internet)
2. [The Application Layer](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/application-layer)
3. [The Transport Layer](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/transport-layer)
4. [The Network Layer: the Data Plane](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/network-layer/data-plane) 
5. [The Network Layer: the Control Plane](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/blob/main/network-layer/control-plane/questions.md)
6. [The Link Layer](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/link-layer) 
7. Wireless and Mobile Networks 
8. Network Security

Commit message:

Done chapter 7 - complete my networking project - chapter 8 will be done in 2025 (i hope)

README.md, after:

# COMPUTER NETWORKING - A TOP DOWN APPROACH by Jim Kurose, Keith Ross 
I decide to work on problems which I found interesting and challenging. The full set of problems you can find and check on the textbook. Please buy a digital/hardcover to support the teachers. This solution is for educational purpose only.

Online lectures and review questions can be found here: [Lectures](https://gaia.cs.umass.edu/kurose_ross/lectures.php).

## Agenda 
1. [Computer Networks and The Internet](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/comp-network-and-the-internet)
2. [The Application Layer](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/application-layer)
3. [The Transport Layer](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/transport-layer)
4. [The Network Layer: the Data Plane](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/network-layer/data-plane) 
5. [The Network Layer: the Control Plane](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/blob/main/network-layer/control-plane/questions.md)
6. [The Link Layer](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/link-layer) 
7. [Wireless and Mobile Networks](https://github.com/duyhuynh02/networking/tree/main/wireless-and-mobile-network)
8. Network Security 

### To-do list 
My plan for chapter 8 will be completed in 2025. I have some fun with this project, hope you can find my solution useful for your study, make sure to double check with your peers/teacher because it's not correct 100%. I also do not have a correct solution. Cheers!
