# Labs - Wireshark 
If you're unable to run Wireshark on a live network connection or are answering question via an LMS (Learning Management System), you can download a packet trace file that was captured while following the steps above. 

In this lab, we’ll explore several aspects of the ICMP protocol:

• ICMP messages generating by the Ping program;

• ICMP messages generated by the Traceroute program;

• the format and contents of an ICMP message.

Before attacking this lab, you’re encouraged to review the ICMP material in section 5.6 of the text1. We present this lab in the context of the Microsoft Windows operating system. However, it is straightforward to translate the lab to a Unix or Linux environment

## ICMP and Ping 
1. What is the IP address of your host? What is the IP address of the destination host?
```sh
Hst address: 192.168.31.26
Dest address: 143.89.12.134
```
2. Why is it that an ICMP packet does not have source and destination port numbers?
```sh
It's being used in Network Layer (Layer 3) for network diagnotics and error reporting, its purpose is conveying information about network condition and errors -> does not use a port number 
```
3. Examine one of the ping request packets sent by your host. What are the ICMP type and code numbers? What other fields does this ICMP packet have? How many bytes are the checksum, sequence number and identifier fields?
```sh
ICMP type: 8 (Echo (Ping) request)
code numbers: 0
Checksum: 0xe21e
Sequence number: 27452 (0x6b3c)
ID fields: 1 
```
4. Examine the corresponding ping reply packet. What are the ICMP type and code numbers? What other fields does this ICMP packet have? How many bytes are the checksum, sequence number and identifier fields?
```sh
ICMP type: 0 (Echo (Ping) reply)
code numbers: 0 0 
Checksum: 0xea1e 
Sequence number: 27452 (0x6b3c)
ID fields: 1 
```

## ICMP and Traceroute
5. What is the IP address of your host? What is the IP address of the target destination host?
```sh
Hst address: 192.168.31.26
Dest address: 128.93.162.83
```
6. If ICMP sent UDP packets instead (as in Unix/Linux), would the IP protocol number still be 01 for the probe packets? If not, what would it be?
```sh

```
7. Examine the ICMP echo packet in your screenshot. Is this different from the ICMP ping query packets in the first half of this lab? If yes, how so?
```sh
Yes, it contains TTL field. 
```
8. Examine the ICMP error packet in your screenshot. It has more fields than the ICMP echo packet. What is included in those fields?
```sh
Type and code is 3 (unreachable)
```
9. Examine the last three ICMP packets received by the source host. How are these packets different from the ICMP error packets? Why are they different?
```sh
No idea 
```
10. Within the tracert measurements, is there a link whose delay is significantly longer than others? Refer to the screenshot in Figure 4, is there a link whose delay is significantly longer than others? On the basis of the router names, can you guess the location of the two routers on the end of this link?
```sh
N/A
```